So whenever you learn something new, you have this thought asking why should you learn it?

So Java has it's own features, let's explore one by one.

Ready?

HIGH LEVEL
    because it is written in a human-readable language, making it easier for programmers to understand and use

OBJECT-ORIENTED
    centered around the concept of objects, which represent real-world entities

MULTITHREADED
  Now, what is a thread?    Thread is nothing but a direction or path that is taken while a program is being executed

  Java is multithreaded because it uses many threads at once to perform a task while these threads run in parallel to accomplish their given task

  There are many advantages of multi-threading, let's list out them
        Better utilization of resources
        Improved responsiveness
        Better user experience
        Lower maintenance costs
        Independent threads

DYNAMIC
    dynamic in programming means things which hasn't been finalized till execution but happen during runtime.

PORTABLE
    can run on any device which has JVM

HIGH PERFORMANCE
    Java uses the JIT(Just In Time) compiler. The compiler only compiles the method which is being called

ROBUST
    ability to handle errors and unexpected situations efficiently, ensuring stable and reliable application execution.
    Java's exceptional robustness is a result of its comprehensive exception handling, strong type checking, automatic memory management, and compiler checks

SECURE
    primary reason for Java's security is its implementation of Java Virtual Machine(JVM)

    JVM is responsible for making sure all Java code is run securely

    JVM also has a set of security policies and rules that ensure only authorized code is allowed to run which means any malicious code is quickly detected and blocked, 
    and any code that is deemed to be unsafe is not executed

    ha=s a process called garbage collection, which is responsible for automatically reclaiming memory that is no longer being used which helps to reduce risk of memory leaks.

    has strong Exception Handling mechanism which does not allow to run the program until you rectify the error

    has access modifier/ access specifier like private, protected, public and default which helps in controlling the access of any member

Well, that's the gist of it. Although there are more features, let's discuss them on the way we go, because instead of theory, we should implement and practice more.

P.S Java is known for its security and almost all banking applications use this.
